✨ Inspiration ✨

Self-Enrichment was created to fight against bipolar disorders, which has been sweeping through our global population. The web application is a collection of useful features aimed at assisting users in their recovery through various resources and solutions. Self-Enrichment bridges the gap between users and doctors, coaches, and families. With the COVID-19 vaccine rollout well underway across the country, it is tempting to deem the pandemic over. But after bearing so many of the losses of the past year — as essential workers, as college students, and as the family and friends of COVID-19 victims — young Americans are facing a mental health crisis. Our generation is in desperate need of support. Sadness, fear, worry, or other emotions can affect us during or after tough situations, like dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic, the loss of a family member or friend, or experiences related to racism. Dealing with these challenges can weigh heavily on your mental health. The COVID-19 pandemic has been stressful for many people. Some groups may be more affected than others. Studies about mental health found inconsistent effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on different racial, ethnic, and even age groups.

More specifically, reports from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention concluded that younger Americans and their psychological health have suffered the greatest over the course of the pandemic. Over half — 51 percent — of respondents aged 18-29 had felt down, depressed, or hopeless at least several days out of the previous two weeks; 28 percent had thoughts of self-harm or suicide over the two-week period, with 1 out of 20 respondents experiencing those thoughts every day. In comparison, a study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that, in 2019, only 21 percent of people in the same demographic had symptoms of depression.

In a world where a mental crisis only exacerbates and places a heavy toll on individual youthful lives, mental health professionals and related resources must be presented to global citizens in a more accessible, modern manner.

⚒ What it does ⚒ The web applications connects global citizens with doctors, coaches, and other professionals that can assist them with their mental disorders. There is also a Mood Tracker feature on the web application. The Mood Trackers keeps track of the mood reactions of users on a daily basis, over many months. By keeping track of their moods for months, users and their doctors can easily recognize, diagonise, and even identify changes in mental disorders, depression, or emotions. There is also a MedTrack Tool feature, which ensures that users meditate using peaceful and relaxing sounds, on a daily basis. There is also an Interaction function on the web application. This is a blog portion of the application where friends and family of ill people can understand about the hardships and difficulties of bipolar individuals. This resource also allows individuals with bipolar disorders to learn more about their disorders. With all these features, individuals can better manage their mental health and their struggle against bipolar disorders, as they can access professional help and resources, while keeping track of their thoughts and emotions over many months.

👷‍♀️ How we built it 👷‍♀️ We started with research and ideation before moving on to sketching low-fidelity prototypes on paper. Then we created the information architecture of the application with user flow and accessibility in mind. When we had a pretty good foundation, we began drafting our frames on Figma, following a tailored style guide. We used HTML for the entire web application! We also used Google Calendar for the MedTrack and we even used Google Cloud for deployment.

💪 Challenges we ran into 💪 A lack of time, hardware problems, and lack of experience were the challenges we ran into. We had a very hard time deciding on the most user-friendly layout without compromising any of the main functions we wanted to provide. Another challenge we encountered was unifying the visual components for the different pages of the app. As we wanted the app to have a cohesive design, we strategically crafted a style guide that includes a set color palette, typography, interactive elements, etc. to implement across the different frames. We ended up drafting multiple iterations of how the app could be structured based on the information architecture of the product before settling on one.

🥇ACCOMPLISHMENTS THAT WE ARE PROUD OF🏅 Despite our unfamiliarity with certain programming languages, we intricately designed a web application after models, designing, and prototyping. With our great passion, we overcame all the difficulties we foresaw and we completed the project. This makes us proud of ourselves. Our expertise with the HTML language allowed us to excel through the hackathon and it incentivized us to combine different elements to form an amazing project. We are proud of our attention to detail, specifically the minor interactions we created to strengthen the usability of the app. We also used many plugins and tools that we were originally unfamiliar with to better our design. Overall, we are very proud of being able to make a web application with high-level programming languages just within a few days! We are also delighted to have developed a solution for those suffering from bipolar disorders. We are proud to offer a unique user experience in which Americans and global citizens can interact with doctors and coaches in order to seek help, and even self-reporting daily mood check-ins!

🚸 What we learned 🚸 JavaScript HTML Project completion Design with Figma GitHub

We learned that time management is really important, we practiced programming with high-level programming languages, and learned to work with certain libraries/frameworks. While creating Lively, we familiarized ourselves with the different tools on Figma and how we can use them to create high-fidelity prototypes. We also learned to use various Figma plugins that can be applied to future projects. Furthermore, we became more aware of how every design choice has the power to make a difference in the user’s experience, and that is definitely something we will continue to keep in mind when designing products. .We learned so much about HTML while completing Website. We learned how to implement UI/UX to make it look appealing users. We were able to manage the time well and Implement the ideas we had brainstormed. Google Calendar and Google Cloud made the application more user friendly and helped us learn about deployment. The themes of the website also add to user functionality and aesthetic appeal!

😲What's next for Self-Enrichment: Mental Health App😲 Flagging entries as signs of a deeper mental health issue and connecting the user with the help they need. Expanding our list of resources. Buying a domain name, and releasing the full project after finishing its development would be next. Improving our interface systems, text-messaging with doctors, and notifications to emails would be new features for the web application. Plan to become a global organization that aims to protect people from their mental problems and conditions.
